>> And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep on--
to tell what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
>> And now the host of the
nationally syndicated Coast
to Coast AM and GAIAM TV
bring you Beyond Belief
with George Noory.
>> George Noory: Well,
welcome to beyond belief.
Now, I don't want
to seem morbid,
but one day none of
you will be here.
You're all going to die.
But if you believe
in the afterlife
that existence continues
forever.
Our special guest on Beyond
Belief deals with the afterlife,
Flipside is his work,
Richard Martini our guest.
Richard, [applause] how are you?
>> Richard Martini: Intrigued.
>> George Noory: You know it's
kind of a sad feeling to know
that all of us one day
are not going to be here.
Well, sort of.
>> Richard Martini:
It's a matter
of perspective now isn't it?
>> George Noory: It sure is.
>> Richard Martini:
Because if we do continue
on then are we gone,
that's the question.
>> George Noory:
That's the question.
>> Richard Martini: So, it's
a little bit like a friend
of yours stepping off the
train that's going to Chicago.
They're no longer on
the train with you,
but you know they exist.
You can't access them, but you
know they're still somewhere
along the trail.
So, that's the good news.
>> George Noory: The bad
news is we don't want
to leave anytime soon.
>> Richard Martini:
Yea that's right.
Well, we don't.
And it's a shame when
our close loved ones go,
but you know sometimes it's
their time whether it was an
agreement they had or something.
I don't-- you know Roger
Ebert as you know--
>> George Noory: Sure, yea.
>> Richard Martini:
Passed away recently.
>> George Noory: He
was one of the best.
>> Richard Martini:
One of the best.
But, it's an unusual
story with Roger
because he passed away
about six years ago.
And he was in a hospital and
his wife Chaz whom I've met,
wonderful, wonderful person.
She was there with him and
she heard him say to her
after he had passed,
I'm still here.
I still have things to do.
>> George Noory: Was she
told reviewing movies.
>> Richard Martini: Well,
you need to tell the doctors
to revive me so she did.
>> GN: And he came back.
>> RM: And he came back.
But what's unusual about that is
when just before he passed
he wrote this wonderful essay
about his love for her.
But, he pointed out in the
essay he still didn't believe
in the afterlife or that
there was an afterlife.
And here the most cherished
person on the planet,
the love of his life
actually could prove it.
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: Because he
was clinically dead.
He spoke to her proving that
there is consciousness--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: After we die.
>> GN: They probably
saved him because of that.
>> RM: They did, absolutely
because she insisted
on the doctors.
And the doctor said, "Oh you
know I'm sorry but he's gone."
>> GN: Yea, but he's emotional.
You know he's gone.
>> RM: Yea he's gone.
But, no she brought him back.
So, you know the
point is listen a lot
of people don't believe
in the afterlife.
They don't believe in research.
They don't believe
in a lot of things.
But, you know for those who've
had the personal experience
of doing it or being there--
>> GN: You believe in it though.
>> RM: Yea you do.
You just--
>> GN: Have you ever had any
doubts because I did once?
I'll tell you about
that in a second.
But--
>> RM: Well--
>> GN: Have you ever
doubted its existence?
>> RM: Sure, of course.
I mean you know as
a little kid growing
up I was always told you
know well this is what
really happens.
And then at some point you
start to examine the research.
Okay, well everybody
says you know
when we die there's
nothing beyond it.
But, wait a second
Uncle Pete showed up
and saw Aunt Betty
so what was that?
>> GN: What was that
all about, yea.
>> RM: So, you kind
of put that aside.
You go well it could
have been imagined.
But anyway, my point
is at some point as I--
it happened in my life,
at some point you get
to where you would start
to examine the research
in a more fully way.
And then if you can examine
research that is replicable,
which is what science is.
You know science has to be--
you have to examine something
and then it has to be replicated
in order for it to be science.
And once you get to a place
where you can replicate
things proving
that people are still
existing beyond.
But, what happened to you?
>> GN: Well, I had
a friend of mine.
He died in a motorcycle
accident.
I have never doubted the
existence of the afterlife,
but for one split moment I did.
I went to his funeral, hate
these things, but I did.
And I'm looking at him in
the casket and it hit me.
That was it.
There's no more.
He's gone, over, done.
It was the coldest, darkest,
scariest feeling I've ever had,
a feeling of total
incompleteness.
And as I looked at him
it started coming back
to the old George
again that oh no, no,
wait a minute there
is an afterlife.
He's moved onto another
plane of existence.
Its part of this universe, its
energy, whatever it might be
and it continues
and then I was fine.
But, for that split moment
it was the worst feeling I've
ever had.
>> RM: Interesting.
Was there any kind of an example
or anything that came to mind
with relating you know
to him afterwards?
>> GN: No, nothing.
I mean there have been no
signs that he's out there
or anything like that.
But, it was just this
void I felt thinking
about the possibility that
it just doesn't exist.
And I guess the bottom
line is when we do pass
over we're either going to know
or we're not going to know.
>> RM: Well yea, that's right.
>> GN: And if we're not
going to know so what.
>> RM: Right.
Well, you know that is true,
but I've heard so many cases
of people because I've
been gathering this stuff
as a documentary--
>> GN: For years.
>> RM: Filmmaker--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: For years now.
I've heard so many cases
where people have had
that experience you know
of that loss, of course.
And you honor that loss
because it is a loss.
You're not going to be able to
see that person as they were,
embrace them as they were.
However, frequently
and many times--
well, let me give you
my own personal example.
My dad passed away in 2004
and the night he
passed I felt his hand
on my shoulder wake me up.
>> GN: The night he passed.
>> RM: The night he passed.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: And he had had
Alzheimer's and he hadn't,
I hadn't heard him speak a
sentence in three or four years.
And he said very
clearly in my ear,
I'm experiencing
indescribable joy.
>> GN: Ah.
>> RM: The next day I said to my
mom, you know did dad ever say,
I never heard him say
a phrase like that?
And she said, "Well, it was very
rare, but when he saw something
that was really beautiful he
would say it was indescribable."
The next night he woke me again.
This time I actually heard
him walking down the hallway
and I felt him come
into the room.
And so, I was wide awake.
Uh oh you know now I'm
going to experience this.
And I heard him say I need
you to write something down.
And sort of just the way I am
with my family I had
an argument with him.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: Dad come on I'm
sleeping, you know.
>> GN: Just tell me alone.
>> RM: What is it?
You know what is
the thing you need?
I'll remember it.
And he said, "You need
to write this down."
Okay, so I got up.
I turned the light on found a
piece of paper and a pencil.
I thought well that
will be the end of that
and then I turned off the
light and I heard his voice.
And he said, "Tell your
mother I'm here with"
and he named all these
people I've never met.
>> GN: That you didn't know.
>> RM: Never heard of,
that she knew, of course,
and then he had very
specific messages
to each one of my brothers.
And at the end of
that each message,
which I didn't understand,
but they did--
>> GN: They did, yea.
>> RM: At the end I asked him,
so why are you telling me this?
You know why not one
of my other brothers?
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: And very simply he said,
"Because you can hear me."
>> GN: So, you had that ability?
>> RM: Well, if you think of
consciousness as an FM receiver,
okay, as a human we certainly
pick up different things.
Everybody has a different
ability to--
>> GN: We sure do.
>> RM: To experience emotions
and energies and feelings.
Everybody's different and some
people perhaps the frequency
on your tuner is just a little
bit different and you more
than anybody else on the planet
really have met quite a few
really well tuned individuals.
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> RM: You know they hear,
they see, they sense.
Some people will tell you it's
just a matter of learning it.
Maybe it's not.
But, the point is, is trying
to open yourself up to it
that it's a possibility that I
might be getting a communication
and it seems to be
more prevalent.
Am I wrong?
I mean you more than anybody
else, you would experience this.
>> GN: It's growing.
>> RM: It seems to be--
>> RM: Growing.
And I'm sure the audience
has experienced that too.
More people, maybe it's
because of the internet is
such an open place.
>> GN: That could be too.
>> RM: You know and we access--
>> GN: Or networking too.
>> RM: So many things.
Yea, we can all see it our
little thing you know while
we're walking down the street.
Its all-- but I heard
somebody say the other day,
my wife was actually
attending a class
where they were teaching
you how to be more in touch
with your inner voice.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And they passed around a
photograph and it was a picture
of her boss who had passed away.
And the boss came through
very clearly, very descriptive
who he was, etc. etc. and the
medium, the practicing medium--
>> GN: Sure.
>> RM: Trying to learn that
said, "So why are you coming
through so clearly today?"
And he said, "Because
the veil is thinning."
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: So, what does that mean?
I don't know.
You know are solar
flares affecting the veil?
Is our consciousness of
being able to communicate
on such a grand scale
so instantly affecting
or is it an emergency?
You know are, the nature
of the planet being a healthy
place top return to let's say
if you consider reincarnation
in this mix.
You know maybe it's important
that we have fresh water
and you know clean air.
>> GN: Maybe they
know something--
>> RM: Maybe they know
something that we need to know
and maybe that's
why the veil is.
But, I think you know you
just want to honor it.
You don't want to fear it.
You want to honor
it in some ways
like okay what can
I learn from this?
>> GN: Tell me about
your filmmaking Rich.
We're going to show
a little clip
in a second, but [inaudible]
>> RM: Okay, well I'll
tell you I've been a
traditional filmmaker.
I have written and or
directed like eight features.
I worked with Bridget
Fonda and Charles Grodin
and different great actors.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: And then somewhere
along the line like all
of us you feel a desire to
continue documenting and seeing
and filming stuff, so I
started making documentaries.
I went to Tibet.
I made a documentary with
Robert Thurman, Uma's dad.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And ultimately that
led to me to sort of say,
well this isn't, I can just
follow my passion, you know.
>> GN: I like this.
>> RM: Yea.
A painter doesn't always
pick up the paintbrush
to pay the rent, right.
>> GN: Exactly.
>> RM: And sometimes you pick
it up because it inspires you.
So, you know the story I
had come across this work
of Michael Newton, the
great psychologist--
>> GN: A journey of soul.
>> RM: And author
and hypnotherapist.
And I went, wow this guy's
story is really interesting.
I wonder if I can interview him
and I contacted their
organization.
They said well he's
not-- he's retired.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: But, we're doing a
conference that he'll be at so
if you want to come by you can.
I thought great.
But, I went and met him
and felt that I was--
my heart was in the right place.
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: He said I'm going to--
>> GN: That's important.
>> RM: That's important--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Because he granted
me his last interview.
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: He said-- you
know he's still around.
You know he's still, he's
retired, but he said,
"I'm not doing this anymore."
>> GN: He's done, yea.
>> RM: So, I thought
that was interesting.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: My last interview.
>> GN: Now, let's take a
little glance at one of your--
>> RM: Okay, great.
>> GN: Works.
>> RM: Terrific.
>> GN: Here we go.
>> It's a [inaudible] between
life regression is at least four
and a half hours long.
And the reason it has to be
so long is because one needs
to achieve a certain level
of trans-depth in order
to access the super
conscious mind.
Now, the super conscious
mind is the mind
that has the soul memories.
>> He was getting a
little ahead of me.
He was actually a little deeper
than I thought and he jumped
into the past life as a
soldier in World War I
and he was being bayoneted.
When it was all over he said
he was feeling better already
and he called me a few
days later and he said,
"There's no more pain.
My wife really wants
to thank you."
Well, I wasn't satisfied
with that.
I didn't tell him this, but I
contacted the British War Office
and the Imperial
Museum in London.
Sure enough there
was such a person
and he existed and
he died in 1960.
So, from that case I began
taking past life clients.
And so, I came kicking and
screaming into this movement.
>> GN: Very good, very
good indeed, "Flipside."
>> RM: "Flipside" yea and
that was Michael Newton.
You got a chance--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: To hear a little
bit of that last interview.
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> RM: It's unusual stuff.
>> GN: Was he intuitive?
How did he pick up
these feelings?
>> RM: Well, you know what's
wonderful about Newton's story
and I think it appeals to a
lot of people for this reason.
He was a complete skeptic.
He was a practicing psychologist
in Los Angeles in the 1950's
and the Bridey Murphy
case happened.
>> GN: Oh sure, huge case.
>> RM: Huge case.
It was a woman who remembered
a past life in Ireland and,
"Time" magazine,
they all covered it.
And so, psychologists
started getting calls
from people saying hey I want
to do a past life regression.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: And he said, "I
don't believe in it.
I just don't.
You know its not-- I don't
think it's worthwhile."
So, then he had this client,
which is the story he
was telling that came
in with a psychosomatic
illness, a pain in his shoulder
that no doctor could identify.
And in the case of you know
of examining it he gave him the
command let's go to the source
of your illness and he jumped
into this past life of a soldier
in World War I who
was being bayoneted.
>> GN: Yep, right there.
>> RM: Right there.
But, Newton's reaction
was interesting.
He didn't believe him, so he
started grilling this poor guy.
What was your mother's
maiden name?
What unit were you in?
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Who was your roommate?
>> GN: And he's writing
all this down.
>> RM: He's writing
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: And as Newton said,
you know the poor guy's
lying there being in pain
as he's being bayoneted.
And eventually he did
take him out of that,
but when he was done
with the session that's
when he sent the stuff off
to the British War Office
and they wrote back and
said yes, indeed that is--
>> GN: This is what happened.
>> RM: Right.
Now, parallel paths, Brian
Weiss, you know Brian.
>> GN: Right, know him well.
>> RM: And his journey into
past life regression was just
like Newton's.
However, Newton's took a
different turn in the 1960's
when a client came in
and I'm paraphrasing.
But, when a client came in
and she was really lonely
and very depressed and
he asked her to take him
to the source of her loneliness.
And she said, "Oh, I'm in
the life between lives.
I'm where we go after we die
and I'm with my soul group."
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And I-- which
isn't like James Brown.
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: But, you know her soul--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Group of people to her--
and that we had all agreed not
to be together in this lifetime.
And I'm completely now happy
because I realize I'll be
back together with my friends.
And as Newton put it, he said
you know the original case was
like cold water in his face and
now this woman is claiming--
he said, he took really good
notes and he studied them.
>> GN: Sure.
>> RM: And then he
really closed his practice
and for the next thirty years
he interviewed only clients
who could take him
to that place,
told no one of his research.
He published his
first book in 1994.
Seven thousand people under deep
hypnosis from all walks of life,
all religions saying
the same things.
>> GN: Same thing.
>> RM: So--
>> GN: It's mind boggling.
>> RM: It's mind boggling.
When I came across
it, you know listen,
it's like any scientific thing.
It's either true or it's not.
And I thought, well if--
for me to prove that
it's true I would have
to take individuals
like yourself.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: Like myself let's
say and I'll film them
so that people can see
for themselves whether
or not someone's
interjecting questions--
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: Or leading--
>> GN: Exactly.
>> RM: Or doing any
of that stuff.
And I took twenty skeptics.
I know last week you had a
person on that was saying
that one of the people you
can't hypnotize is a skeptic.
>> GN: Is a skeptic, yea.
>> RM: But, in my experience
let's just say and I work
with different hypnotherapists
that I know you know
where their heart is.
I know why they're
doing this work.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And they all have the
same experience, identical.
>> GN: That's mind boggling.
It really is.
So, let's take some
questions for you alright?
>> RM: Great.
>> GN: Rich Martini questions
from you on the afterlife.
Whose got one, anyone?
Yes?
>> Have you ever had a
past life experience?
>> GN: Have you ever
had one yourself?
>> RM: Well, that's
a great question.
And as a filmmaker
and a journalist I--
my background is in journalism
and you know filmmaking.
So, when I went to start
filming these sessions with--
at this conference that
Michael Newton was at they said
that I would be allowed to
film actual sessions, so I did.
I began filming them.
And after about four
or five days
of mind blowing evidence they
said would you like to try one?
And I thought well that's the
line you cross as a journalist
because once you cross that line
you're no longer completely.
But, George Plimpton, the
great author, "Paper Tiger",
that's what he had
done his whole career.
And I had met George
and I thought okay
this is chance for me.
How can I talk about it
unless I've tried it myself?
So, I did and I've done two now.
And I've done two because
the first session was
so mind blowing about two years
later I thought you know it
couldn't possibly
have been that real.
And so, I went back and did
another session and it sort
of verified everything
that happened.
In the first session I was
determined as a journalist not
to be led by the hypnotherapist.
You know that's the great
fear you know that you're
under hypnosis and they're going
to say don't you see
yourself on the Titanic.
You know, are you in--
>> GN: Pushing you.
>> RM: Egypt?
>> GN: That's right.
>> RM: Are you anywhere
near Cleopatra?
>> GN: Are you in that raft?
>> RM: Exactly.
Well, that's what
you're afraid of.
But, so I was determined that no
matter what happened I would not
say that I saw something
or heard something
or sensed something unless
it was actually accurate.
And so, the hypnotherapist,
the process is they take you
through your current life so you
remember things that, of course,
you do remember, but you
remember them in a visceral way.
It's very interesting because
I remembered cutting my finger
when I was eleven.
I sliced this open.
>> GN: Ouch.
>> RM: And I could see
the blood and feel it.
And I was thinking, oh this is
funny and then I started talking
in an emotional way like
a twelve year old would.
You know, so I was aware of that
oh it's interesting I'm tapping
into this person.
>> GN: So, you are a
believer now beyond any shadow
of a doubt?
>> RM: Well I-- yes, absolutely.
So, I did find myself
when he's--
they ask you could you go
to a previous existence
that has some significance
to this one.
And I kept saying I
don't see anything.
I don't see anything.
And then he finally said,
"Well, just look down."
And I looked down and I saw
my feet in some water and--
>> GN: Huh.
>> RM: Then I saw myself in
buckskin and then I laughed
because then I saw that
I was an American-Indian.
And I laughed as a filmmaker.
>> GN: Yea, yea.
>> RM: Oh, that's what
you're going to come up with.
And so, then I said
that I was a Lakota,
a Shaman, a medicine man.
And I laughed at that too,
because I thought oh please,
you know you saw,
"Dances with Wolves."
I mean that's why you're--
and then he asked
me what was my name
and I said it sounds
like Tatanka.
Now, Tatanka, I saw the movie.
You know it means buffalo.
>> GN: That's right.
>> RM: But, I said it's Watanka.
And then he asked me to
go to my tribe and I said,
"I don't want to do that."
And then he said, "Why?"
And then I said, "Ah and then I
saw that everyone was murdered."
Everyone was dead and
I felt that emotion
of seeing a crowd of
your friends dead.
And I was thinking to
myself, if I'm making this
up why am I feeling this
and then I went to
literally a tepee.
I felt the skin you know--
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: Pulling it open.
And I saw this woman lying
on the ground and I said,
"They've killed my wife
and they've taken my son."
And you feel that emotion--
>> GN: That's right,
you feel it.
>> RM: Of that--
>> GN: And to know you went
through that and [inaudible]
>> RM: Well or to imagine
you went through it.
But, it's odd to feel--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: That stress
of that emotion.
>> GN: It's pretty
vivid you see.
>> RM: So, I was consciously
going well this is weird.
If you're making this up
why are you experiencing--
so then he asked who
did this to your tribe?
And I said, "It was
the God damn Herrin."
And as I said it I thought
wait a minute, the Herrin,
they're in Upstate New York.
The Sioux are in Montana.
I'm like you're all over
the map so I let it go.
And I'll tell you that about a
year later I was at a funeral
in Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
One of my aunts passed
away and I was talking
to my cousin, Hayes Callahan.
I'm sorry Coin Callahan Jr. and
his brother Evase and he said
that he was a Lakota-Sioux
historian.
It's something that I didn't
know about him at all.
>> GN: So, there you go, yea.
>> RM: And I said, "Well,
let me tell you I had
this weird thing."
And he said, "Wait, before you
begin just tell me what were
you wearing?"
I said, "Well, I was
wearing buckskin."
He said, "Well, did
you have any feathers?"
I said, "Yea there were two."
He said, "Were they
up or were they down?"
I said, "They were down."
He said, "Well, that means
you were a medicine man."
>> GN: Interesting.
>> RM: I said, "Well, then
why-- what was my name?
What did that mean?"
Watanka, and he said, "Well,
that's what they called
their medicine men
because Wakan Tanka
means the Great Spirit."
>> GN: And you had to like it.
>> RM: I had no idea.
I couldn't even look it up.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: I tried.
And then I saw the--
>> GN: You spelled it wrong.
>> RM: I said, "Then what's
this about me saying the Herrin
and Sioux you know
were fighting?"
And he said, "You're
sitting in the spot
where they fought
for sixty years."
>> GN: Wow.
>> RM: Those are details
I couldn't have gotten
from cryptomnesia,
which is what science--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Calls--
>> GN: There's no way.
>> RM: Hypnotherapy.
There was no way.
So, for myself, yes
and most people
who experience these things will
tell you, you know I saw my dad.
I saw my mom.
I saw my son in this
experience and it felt real
because they're talking to you
in a way that seems as much,
as real as this moment is--
>> GN: Right now, yep.
>> RM: Now.
It feels the same.
So, when you come back from
that experience you come away
from it going I-- Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle--
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: You know the
great author.
I saw some footage
of him talking
about his own experiences.
And he said, "You know when
you know something you know it
in your heart."
>> GN: And its life
altering isn't it?
>> RM: It is.
>> GN: Let's take another
question for Rich Martini.
Yes ma'am, way in the back.
>> You mentioned that you
worked on a documentary
with Robert Thurman about Tibet.
So, during that time did you
look into their perspectives,
"The Tibetan Book of the
Dead" and their perspectives
on the nature of mind
and the dying experience?
>> RM: Absolutely and it's
very unusual you would ask
that question because when
my dear friend passed away
in my arms back in 1996 she
came to visit me repeatedly
and then took me to the
place where she now is.
And it was a mind
blowing experience,
but I knew she had been
a lifelong Buddhist.
So, I thought well maybe
Buddhism will be an avenue
for me to find her.
And so, I just thought well--
and I happened to be
reading an article.
Of course nothing happens
coincidentally, but I happened
to be reading an article
about Robert Thurman
and this great story of where
he had found his reincarnated
teacher and the teacher was a
five year old kid on a tricycle
who rode up to his
foot and said,
"Thurman why did you
leave the monkhood?"
And as a result of that article
I was on my way to New York
to work with our dear friend
Charles Grodin on his show
and I saw that Thurman
was teaching at Columbia.
So, I called him up and said you
know, "Can I audit your class?"
And he said, "Oh
it's very advanced.
It's a philosophical class.
It's for doctoral candidates."
He said, "Well, do you know
who Hegel and Kant are?
And I said, "They
played for the 49'ers."
He said, "Alright, you
can audit the class."
And so, I became great
friends with Robert.
And yes, "The Tibetan
Book of the Dead"
because they have studied
this so extensively.
And Robert's written
his own version of that.
And ultimately I did get to go
to Tibet with him and I've been
to India with him and
I've been to these places
where they really have a
connection with the afterlife.
However, and this is the very
unusual nature of this research,
and I've talked to
Robert about it.
It's that in Tibetan and
Hindu and most philosophies
that embrace reincarnation,
they believe
that between lives we are
dictated by karma or actions
in our previous life
as to who we're going
to be in our next life.
They have the concept of
lower births for people
who have been naughty
or bad, let's say, evil.
In this research it shows
a contrary position,
which is between lives we
are fully conscious of all
of our previous lives.
That we see why we chose those
lives and why we chose this life
and how they're all
interconnected.
That's a fundamentally
contrary position to what,
"The Tibetan Book of
the Dead" teaches.
However, the argument
I've had with Robert
and you don't ever want to
argue with Robert Thurman
because he's a master.
>> GN: You can't win.
>> RM: You can't win.
You know monks spend like
four hours a day debating.
But, the point is
this, it's very simple.
It goes to the book "Flipside"
and what I've been doing.
"The Tibetan Book of the
Dead" was written by one monk
who had this experience of going
through the levels of death.
Completely accurate with what
hospice care workers say.
>> GN: Same thing.
>> RM: So, same thing,
very valuable.
However, when he got to this
other place it didn't continue
on for him.
Thousands of monks have written
treatises about that book,
but only one monk
had the experience.
My point is very simple.
If you have two people
who go to the same,
have the same near
death experience,
two people have the same
afterlife experience then it's
worth examining because then
you can see the differences.
I'm talking about seven
thousand people over the course
of thirty years having
the same journey.
So, you know I don't want to
be in a position to debate
with the great philosophical
point that Robert Thurman can.
But, it is to say that
yes, I have examined it.
I think Tibetan Buddhism is
probably the most peerless
philosophy on the planet that I
have ever seen or been around.
And it's a wonderful way to
examine the nature of reality,
no question about that.
But, in the nature of unreality
or the afterlife I've
found this other avenue
that seems to make sense to me.
>> GN: It works for you.
>> RM: If that answers
your question.
>> GN: That's works.
Let's take another look at one
of Rich's documentary clips.
>> Take a moment just to
observe any of thoughts
that are running
through your mind.
[ Music ]
>> People are dying around me.
>> People are dying.
>> Yea.
>> And what are you doing?
>> We're being rounded
up, this horrible place.
>> Who, who's rounded you up?
>> Soldiers.
>> Soldiers?
>> Soldiers, officials for the
government have rounded us up.
>> Officials.
>> Yea.
>> Help me understand where
this is and what time it is?
>> Somewhere in the 40's.
>> The 40's.
>> [inaudible]
>> Uh huh, yea.
>> This is very disturbing.
>> GN: Great clip Rich.
Tell me about that.
>> RM: Very unusually that was
the first session that I filmed.
They had invited me to this
conference and this woman
who was a hypnotherapist--
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: So, she offered
to do a demonstration.
I talked to her afterwards,
interviewed her afterwards.
She had never had
this past life memory.
And during the course and
the gentleman you saw there
conducting the session
was the President
of the Newton Institute.
A great hypnotherapist named
Paul Aurand in New York City.
And Paul walked her back
through a previous life then
that has some significance
on this lifetime.
And she remembered this
disturbing memory of being
on her way to the gas
chamber in Auschwitz.
Now, she named her family
and the people that she loved
and I was able to verify
that this person indeed did
exist and had been there.
But, more importantly she went
into the life between lives.
In this clip later on,
a little bit later on
and there she is able to
address questions to--
of a spiritual nature
to higher--
>> GN: Sure.
>> RM: Thinkers.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: People call them
the Council of Elders
or the wisdom makers
or whatever it is.
But, at some point she was
asking why, why did I choose
such a difficult lifetime?
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: I lost everyone and
everything that I loved.
And then she said, "Oh
this is very unusual.
I know it's going to be
hard for me to explain it,
but they're showing me
images that it was harder
to choose the role of a
perpetrator in this lifetime
than that of a victim."
And I can tell you that my
brain froze at that moment.
I had never heard a more
politically incorrect sentence
in my life.
And I really had to
look around the camera
like did I just hear that?
It was something-- it was
so beyond my perception,
anyway and as I've heard more
and more and as she said,
"Every day in that
lifetime very difficult."
Not to say that terrible
things didn't happen.
They did. But, every day
was lesson in courage.
A lesson in loyalty, a
lesson in compassion,
a lesson in love
heightened to a great degree.
So, I heard Scott
De Tamble talking
to a group the other day,
something I had filmed
and he's a hypnotherapist.
And he said to them,
"You're the courageous ones.
You people chose this lifetime.
You know how difficult
it's been for all of us.
You don't have to come.
You have a choice.
We have free will."
We can say I don't-- I'm
going to wait this one out.
Let the team play without me.
>> GN: That's right.
>> RM: You know you
guys go ahead.
You know I'm just going to--
>> GN: But they take it.
>> RM: [inaudible]
>> GN: They take it.
>> RM: But, the courageous
ones say yes I can handle this.
I'm going to sign up
for a difficult life.
In fact--
>> GN: Do they know that though
signing up for that life?
>> RM: That's what people
say under deep hypnosis.
>> GN: Alright.
>> RM: And that's the experience
they have which is that you find
that people who suffer the most,
let's talk about lesser birds
as somebody might call them.
But, in our-- and this research
shows that the courageous ones,
the older souls choose
the more difficult lives
because they think
they can handle it.
>> GN: Or fix it.
>> RM: Or fix it.
So, for example, I
had a Tibetan monk say
to me do you think I would
chose to be born in Africa
and an HIV child into poverty.
That would be my choice.
And I said, "Which one of
those concepts is negative?"
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And then let's say
that you and I George,
we're in our soul group meeting
and I say now look
this lifetime I--
you're only going to
live six months man.
That's what I want you to do.
>> GN: That's it, yea.
>> RM: It's going to be hard,
but not so much for you.
It'll be hard on everyone
around you and they're all going
to learn these lessons
in compassion
and love and forgiveness.
So, do you think you
could give me one
out of the thousand we're
going to have together?
And you can say no--
>> GN: I don't want to.
>> RM: I don't want to.
But, you can also say
okay, if it's going
to help people that I love, yea.
That's, to me when you talk
about the Buddhist philosophy
of enlightenment, which has to
do with wisdom and compassion.
Those are the two wings--
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: Of enlightenment,
what they say
when you examine somebody's
sacrificing their lifetime
so you can learn a lesson, wow.
How powerful is that?
>> GN: Is, "The Egyptian Book
of the Dead" similar with,
"The Tibetan Book of the Dead?"
>> RM: Another great question.
From my research the Egyptians
had their sleep temples, okay.
And so, they had it-- you know
we grow up with a paradigm
of everything is
nature or nurture.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: It's either genetic
or it's sociological.
That's what we're told.
That's what doctors are told.
That's what all of our
medication is based on.
Well, the Egyptians had
this third paradigm,
which was something to do
with the spirit and they used
to sleep temples
where people would--
you would come in and somebody,
a priest would be there
and he'd help you sort of
examine things from this kind
of metaphorical sense.
What was you dream, etc. etc.
>> GN: Guides basically
aren't they?
>> RM: Guides.
And so, that's a
way of examining
that nature of existence.
In terms of reporting there
are things a little bit more
about the mystical nature of it.
Whereas, "The Tibetan Book
of the Dead" is really the
physical nature of you know
as you go and if you--
>> GN: Both equally
important, right?
>> RM: Both equally important.
And I had the experience
just last fall
when my mom was passing away.
And my wife had sent me
this list of hospice notes,
which was identical to, "The
Tibetan Book of the Dead"
but instead of you know
a big volume it was
like this is going to happen.
So, when it happened and I was
holding my mom's hand I was able
to understand it and
not panic you know
because oh, this is happening.
Like shouldn't I call the
doctor and get somebody in here.
Just calm down, this is the
journey that they're taking.
You know it's easily the most
difficult thing we can do
as human beings to experience
the death of a loved one.
But, it's also the most
powerful life force
and nobling experience
other than perhaps birth--
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: That we can
experience in our lifetime.
>> GN: How many of you
are afraid of dying.
Not that you want to die,
but are you afraid of dying?
Raise your hand if you're--
>> RM: Wow.
>> GN: That's pretty
bold isn't it?
>> RM: The veil is thinning.
>> GN: Maybe it is.
It is. I mean like I say, we
don't want to jump too soon.
>> RM: No.
That's true.
And of course, listen,
every time I get on a plane,
you know every time I
get in a train, you know
and I've got kids and
I've got responsibilities
and all that stuff.
You just-- look, none
of us want to check out.
That's a given.
And it's a lot of work.
It's a lot of work
to get to be George.
It's got-- a lot of work
has been involved to get
to where you are and you don't
want to squander or waste that.
I'll tell you an example.
I was giving a talk
in Virginia Beach
and I was talking about suicide.
We-- just the topic came up.
And I was saying how you know
there's a myriad of reasons.
We-- no one can tell you
exactly why something happened.
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: But, they can
give you perspectives.
So, I was saying you know
in the research sometimes
people say well
in that previous lifetime
I committed suicide
and when I got back
I was tearing my hair
out because all I
had to do was wait.
If I had only waited until
Wednesday when the tickets
to Rome were going to
appear and then we were--
>> GN: Or the new job.
>> RM: Or the new job.
>> GN: Or whatever.
>> RM: If I had just waited and
then your soul group says yes,
yes, you screwed up all
of our elaborate plans.
However, we love you.
We love-- we have no-- we're
not going to judge you at all.
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: We love you
and we'll do it again.
So, after the talk a woman
came up to me and said, "Well,
I was a Wednesday person."
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: I said, "What
do you mean?"
She said, "Well, I
was at my wits end,
at the end of my
rope and I had"--
>> GN: Jumped too soon.
>> RM: I had decided
that I would check out.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And she had gone to a
hardware store to buy the stuff
that she had looked up online
that you're supposed to use.
And while she was in line she
heard these two boys talking
and they were from Uganda,
some of the Lost Boys,
you know part of that war.
And she started talking to
them and it suddenly dawned
on her this was her reason
for being on the planet.
She now lives in Uganda and
takes care of these families.
Her life changed because
she waited until Wednesday.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: So, it's a
way of saying look--
>> GN: Just a moment.
>> RM: The afterlife might
be a wonderful place, okay,
but you're here for a reason.
Honor that.
Honor the reason.
I know it's difficult.
We all go through really hard
things, but honor the fact
that you're-- you've had
the courage to come here.
Give yourself a break.
>> GN: Exactly.
>> RM: You know on some level.
>> GN: It's got to
be probably one
of the most tormenting feelings.
The-- I have a friend
who committed suicide,
very prominent, father left
him fifty million dollars
and he had a great career.
>> RM: Wow.
>> GN: Nobody knows
what happened.
Nobody knows.
>> RM: Well, if I
might, I might add this.
I've been researching
this as well.
And a lot of times and this is
you know not to go to off topic,
but every massacre, you know
in Santa Monica where I'm
from we just had a gun massacre.
>> GN: You just had
a horrible shooting.
>> RM: Yea.
Every single massacre
since Columbine has
involved SSRI drugs.
>> GN: Yes.
>> RM: Those are
Serotonin Inhibitor drugs.
>> GN: I agree.
I've talked about that on
Coast to Coast as you know.
>> RM: Okay as you know.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: And what I found also
because I remember
meeting a filmmaker's wife
and her husband had
suddenly committed suicide.
And she said, "There
was nothing."
And I said, "You
know was he taking"--
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And she said, "You
know it's weird you would ask
me that.
He was exhausted."
See Serotonin when it
misfires, sometimes it misfires
because we're not sleeping.
So, and autism misfiring.
So, that's why they're
trying to give [inaudible]
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: Alright, so he went in
and said, "I'm really tired."
And the doctor said, "Well,
here try this SSRI drug."
And there's part
of the amygdala,
which is where the
fight or flight exists.
>> GN: Yea, the reptilian
brain is there.
>> RM: And it's-- there's
a trigger that keeps us
when we're driving, when
we keep in our lane.
We don't think, oh I think
I'll pull into traffic.
But, when the trigger
either through--
>> GN: Flips.
>> RM: Depression or
through these drugs.
And apparently there's a test
you can take that shows whether
or not this will happen to you.
And I can't-- I wish I could
tell you the name of the test,
but this doctor told
me about it.
But, he said, "That
fifteen percent
of the people are naturally--
have this problem when that--
>> GN: They're prone.
>> RM: Switch goes off all they
can think about suddenly instead
of driving in their lane is
jumping off the St. Vincent
Thomas bridge as Tony Scott did.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: He has started
taking one of these drugs.
>> GN: Aw.
>> RM: So, you know
thank God for the fact
that a toxicology report
was online after he passed
and I went through it
and found the drug.
>> GN: There it was.
>> RM: And it's a black
box drug they call it--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Where there's
a warning on it.
So, my-- listen, SSRI drugs
help eighty five percent
of the population.
A lot of people take
it and they're fine.
My point is only
do the research--
>> GN: Right.
>> RM: Find out if
you're allergic
to this drug before you take it.
And why aren't the
drug company--
we won't get into that.
>> GN: That's a long story.
>> RM: Right.
>> GN: That's another
show Richie.
>> RM: I'm sorry.
>> GN: Let's take some
questions for Rich Martini.
Yes sir, right here?
We'll get you the mic.
Hold on for a sec.
>> Some of the stuff you've been
talking about are some things
that I've had very
similar experiences about.
I studied at Naropa Institute
and took some classes on,
"The Tibetan Book of the Dead"
from a woman named
Francesca Fremantle who is one
of the first people to
translate the book to English.
And some years after that I
was studying with a shaman
and I was looking for a thing
of why I can't do anything right
and I was being regressed.
And he didn't bother to tell me
that it could regress
me into a past life.
And I got regressed
into a past life
where I was a Lakota Indian--
>> GN: Part of the club.
>> Before that I had always
thought Lakota was the most
beautiful word in
the English language.
And I found out that I had
been a leader of a small band
of Indians and we we're trying
to escape from the U.S. Calvary.
And like you had said, we
were massacred and I saw it
and I swear I got this
impression, my present lifetime
of why I can't do
anything right,
because I couldn't
protect this band.
But, my question to you
is after this experience
for probably a week after
that, the personality
of the Indian I was in
that past lifetime had bled
through into this
lifetime and I was walking
around like I was this
real studly guy and it took
about a week for
it to bleed off.
And I was wondering if you've
experienced that before
and heard about that
kind of thing?
>> RM: Absolutely.
And may I say that
you are a studly guy.
But, you know we carry on these,
all this persona
that we've chosen.
And so, inside of you
is that Lakota warrior.
He hasn't gone anywhere.
He's still there.
It's very interesting
you would say
that because I was giving
a public talk about this
and I mentioned that
massacre and a woman
in the front row just
burst into tears.
And I happened to be doing
this session with or this talk
with Scott De Tamble who
happened to be in the audience.
So, he came up and
I introduced him
and he took the moment
to say are you okay.
Would you like to examine that?
And now, if you look up my
name, Martini, "Flipside"
and YouTube there's a
whole channel of my talks.
And in one of them he
brings this woman up
and does right there a live
demonstration of talking
to this woman and examining
it and she quickly went
into the lifetime of a Sioux.
And interesting enough she said,
"It's in West Virginia" okay.
And I got a ton of emails--
>> GN: She had great details.
>> RM: A ton of people saying.
Well, you know kind of email
people saying well the Sioux
were never in West Virginia.
Well, actually they were.
>> GN: They were, yea.
>> RM: And so she witnessed
the same thing you did.
Her tribe being massacred
and her job was
to burn all the clothing,
something I didn't know.
But, that was how she helped
them move onto the spirit world.
But, let's go beyond that for
a second and the reason it came
up is usually when people
have a past life regression,
imagine the question is what
significance does this past life
have on my current life?
That's why it's coming up
from your subconscious.
Whether it's true
or not it's coming
up because it wants
you to examine it.
And when you examine it what
is the nature of Lakota?
What is the nature of Sioux
or what is the nature
of Native Americans?
They're-- as you know that
nature and the preservation
of the planet was paramount.
In one session that I
recorded the person said,
you know it's amazing that these
cultures, the Native Americans
and the Aboriginals of Australia
who are as close as you can get
to the afterlife in their
cultures aren't studied more
by people for whatever reason,
because of science I guess.
But, in your case that
Lakota warrior came forth
because he wants
you to examine him.
What was the nature of his
existence, the sacredness
of all objects, of trees?
I did a session recently.
It was a filmmaker who
was a skeptic and we got
to this question of she wanted
to ask who or what is God?
That was her skeptical
question going into it,
but then once she got to a
place she was there in sort
of this library of souls and
talking to her spirit guide
and that was the question.
What or who is God?
And the spirit guide said,
"God is beyond the capacity
of the human brain
to comprehend.
It's just not physically
possible."
You know at first I thought
oh he's ducking the question.
>> GN: No, he wasn't.
>> RM: But, he was
literally saying it's
like outside the
computer's capacity.
It's just beyond the physical
capacity to understand.
>> GN: Explain like a
computer to a caveman.
>> RM: Exactly.
>> GN: You couldn't do it.
>> RM: Exactly or you
know or air travel
to a bushman in Africa.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: It's like really.
But, he said, "You
can experience God
by opening your heart to
everyone and to all things."
I thought that was
very interesting
that he added to all things.
The logical saying is open
your heart to everyone.
Okay, we've heard that
before, but to all things.
Well, that's the Native
American version of reality.
Trees are alive.
Everything is animated with
energy or the Great Spirit,
which is what we're
talking about here, energy.
The Great Spirit
is within all of us
at the same time simultaneously.
Then it-- once you
start to acknowledge
that perhaps the Great
Spirit is within all of us
and all things you stop judging
people for their behavior
because you consider
maybe they're doing this
because I asked them to.
Maybe they're doing
it because they need
to do it to learn something.
And then you start to
consider like is water sacred?
Is the air sacred?
And if it is why do we treat
it the way we treat it?
And I'm not saying everybody
has to stop their car you know
and not go anywhere again.
I'm just saying you start
to see it as a perspective.
You know you start
to examine the planet
from this new perspective
of I chose to be here.
I'm a warrior here.
I'm still a warrior.
I'm always a warrior within, but
I also want to be able to share
that with other people.
Does that make sense?
>> GN: Let's take another
question for Rich Martini.
Yes sir, right up here in front?
>> Yes, you referred
to the Native Americans
and you referred to all
things and all relations
as in Homa Takahashi [Assumed
spelling] is the Great Spirit
they talk about.
Have you had any regression
where there were any people
that refer to being something
else other than a human being,
a spirit animal so to speak?
>> RM: Well, I'll tell you
in Newton's research he found
through the thousands of
people that he interviewed
that every animal
has its own realm.
So, which is similar to what
the Native Americans believe,
the buffalo had their own realm.
But, in his research it was
that humans are only humans,
that animals of the
earth can switch around.
Animals of the air
can switch around
and animals of the sea, okay.
That people by and
large don't come back
as animals or their pets.
However, within each
realm, let's say,
you can have a particular
animal that might have had many,
many lifetimes and understands
this process better than we do.
So, you know we've all
experienced animals that look
at us and you go oh my, this
cat is talking to me, you know
or is trying to tell
me something or teach--
a dolphin who teach
people things.
It's not to say that
they're any lesser.
They're just another
version of it.
However, in this research
you'll find people say
that they normally
don't reincarnate here.
That they normally incarnate--
>> GN: They go elsewhere.
>> RM: Somewhere else.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: In my book, "Flipside"
there's a guy like that
who claims that he normally
is on this other planet.
He names it.
I was able to find you
know in the astronomy guide
where he claimed this place was.
But, he said you know
there he was like,
more like an animal creature
and he described himself.
And the question the
hypnotherapist asked, you,
know is your group of
people like smarter?
He laughed and what
he said is this is--
I think it's controversial,
but he said,
you know we love you humans.
We love you.
He said, pets is
not the right word.
However, we consider
you and I was
like pets is not the right word.
But, what he was saying was
you know because if you want
to just picture it that
we're playing in a sandbox
and we're young kids
in a sandbox and we
as the older souls are
back there observing
as playing in sandbox.
Certainly you know you see
people fighting and going
through their, you know-- and
they look at you with tears
in their eyes and you
say you know its okay.
You know just relax.
You're learning something
from this you know
fight that you're in.
But, and you know that would be
like pets not the right word,
but you know it's sort
of treating people
with this benevolent attitude.
So, along those lines
people do and have reported
that sometimes they're
in some other planet
and they see themselves as a
different form that's not human,
but is some other form.
But, there's intelligence
or sentience involved
within that persona.
And my feeling about this
is you know put that aside.
You need to find two
people from that planet
so you can examine what
are they talking about.
Listen, everybody has their
own personal experience.
You have an example
of what sunset is.
You know what the word
home means to you.
It means something else to me.
>> GN: And it's different
to somebody else.
>> RM: It's different
to everybody.
And so, when you
experience these life--
these past life regressions
everybody has a different
examination of what a
library is, for example.
They'll call it a library, but
it's different for everybody.
It's never the same structure.
So, we-- you know, you know
that it's a mental construct.
I'll give you an example.
At some point while I was doing
a session, my own session,
I was there with my dad.
And the hypnotherapist
said, "So,
if you could see your dad's
energetic color what would
that be?"
And I-- as he asked me
that I saw him dissolve
into this golden orange
light and he was just
like a shimmering light.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And then I described it.
And then when I was done
describing it he went back
to dad.
Later on I thought well,
it's not that he dissolved.
It's that I adjusted
my per-- my--
>> GN: Perception.
>> RM: My FM receiver slightly
so I could just see the shimmer
and then it went back to
where I could see the person.
>> GN: Well, you know how they
say Richard that beauty is
in eyes of the beholder?
>> RM: Absolutely.
>> GN: People look at somebody
differently than somebody else.
>> RM: Absolutely.
>> GN: And it really works.
Let's take one more audience
question, now way in the back.
>> I'm just curious.
In the stream of reincarnation
where does a serial
killer fit in?
>> RM: Well, in my experience it
really is based on the research.
So, when you talk about
negativity and people
that are negative, you
know the Hitler question.
You know, where does Hitler
fit inside that paradigm,
especially when people
claim in this realm
that there is no
judgment, that there is no--
it's just forgiveness.
And when you claim that then it
goes against everything we know,
against you know people,
the way their behavior is.
And when you-- but when you talk
about a serial killer all I can
do is point to the research.
In Newton's case he
had spoken to people
who had experienced some energy
from people that were part
of that paradigm and
he said, "Those people"
because the way the
process works-- that's--
if I may just go
back for a second.
The process according
to spirit guides is
that energy is put together
not at the big bang,
but at any point and
that becomes the soul.
And that that soul is then
nurtured and added to and sort
of like, almost like different
energy pat-- like a painting.
The different colors are
added to it and added to it
and then they begin
their journey
through each lifetime, okay.
And then as they go through
each lifetime they add
more experience.
They have-- everyone
has a spirit guide
and then eventually
they get to some place.
Now, let's imagine somebody
has gotten to a place
where every time they show
up here they go I'm going
to master this anger that I have
so I'm going to choose
this guy--
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And I can get over this.
And they get here
and they can't.
They can't master it.
They're terrible at it.
They get enraged.
They go out and they
kill a bunch of people.
Now, they go back to
the life between lives.
Everybody pulls them aside
and says now what did you do?
And as you hear in
near death research
and this research people
experience the negativity
that they've engendered
on other people.
So, they go through
that experience of,
a cleansing experience,
but experiencing what
happened to other people.
So, that's a very difficult
thing for a person to go
through as you can imagine.
But however, let's pretend
that guy then comes back
and continues to fail.
In Newton's case he reported
that sometimes your Council
of Elders along with you decides
you know this is not working.
We need to pull you apart.
We need to pull your energy
apart and reconstruct it
so we can adjust this behavior.
I know how weird that
sounds, but it follows
with the logic of free will.
So, you may choose to say you
know what you're right I can't
handle being on this
planet without being crazy.
>> GN: Do you think a
serial killer, Rich,
comes back as a serial killer?
>> RM: I don't know.
Let's just say based
on the research.
It's not fair for me to go
you know this is what happens.
I haven't personally
experienced any of that.
>> GN: They're supposed
to perfect themselves
and get better, right.
>> RM: Well, what happens is
between lives you go back.
Now, let's give an example
of somebody who's a serial
killer that's paid by the Army.
>> GN: Okay.
>> RM: Okay, somebody
who's been given a rifle
and they're a sniper.
Now, they have been asked
by their government
to go out and be a--
>> GN: And kill.
>> RM: Kill, okay, repeatedly.
We don't think of it-- we
think of it differently
because it's not like crazy
running around with a gun.
But, no they're bumping
off people.
There was a soldier that the
"L.A. Times" wrote about.
Every time-- he was a sniper.
He was called the Marlboro Man.
But, every time he
killed somebody he said,
"He saw their life
flash before his eyes."
He had that odd experience
of seeing them grow up
and all the way to the moment--
>> GN: Instantly.
>> RM: Where he pulled
the trigger.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Instantly, which needless
to say affected him deeply
and now you know he's in
a rehab and he's trying
to recover from that experience.
But, he was, from a perspective
point of view, tasked and agreed
to play this role of
a person who went out
and ended lives, okay.
And at some point he realized
I can't do that anymore
and put the gun down and said--
>> GN: And that was it for him.
>> RM: So, that was it for him.
He learned that lesson.
However he came to
it he came about it
in a weird different way,
paid for by the government.
>> GN: But, he got there.
>> RM: But, he got there.
So, in the terms of
somebody who, like this kid
in Santa Monica, who
obviously was enraged,
perhaps SSRI drugs,
we don't know.
He was under psychiatric care.
He killed a lot of people.
He fired thirteen
hundred rounds.
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: But, he killed
five people.
Those five people, you know
you have to examine what--
and like I say, there's a myriad
of reasons why things happen.
So, the answer to your question
is do serial killers keep
coming back.
It depends on each person.
It depends on what they learn.
It depends on what
their agreements were.
>> GN: Let's take
another look at one
of your documentary
clips here Rich.
>> RM: Thanks.
>> GN: Here we go.
>> RM: The most famous
reincarnated soul who can read
and reflect on his previous
thirteen lifetimes lives
in Dharamsala, India.
Hindus, Buddhists, Daoists,
American Native tribes,
Aboriginal tribes of Australia,
the Celts and the Cathours
and twenty five percent
of Americans believe
in some form of reincarnation.
[chanting] Reincarnation as a
religious concept for Hindus
and Buddhists maintains
fundamental tenants
about how it works.
[band playing] The theory
is that between lives we are
like wisps of smoke that
travel from one existence
to the next based on karma or
acts during our previous lives.
[ Music ]
Newton's research
is contrary to this.
According to his seven thousand
patients over the course
of thirty years they report
we are fully conscious
between lives.
>> GN: Now, why are some
religions like Tibetans
and Buddhists more conscious
of this than another religion
because you know I don't recall
the Catholic Church talking
about reincarnation?
>> RM: Well, I just mentioned
the Cathours in there
and the Cathours were an
offshoot of the religion
who believed in reincarnation
and the church was
so afraid of [inaudible]
>> GN: Out they go.
>> RM: Well, they helped
them on their way--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: To the next incarnation.
>> GN: They moved them.
>> RM: They moved them.
I would like to say first
that people, I think,
miscategorize Buddhism
as a religion.
It's really not.
It's a philosophy.
Religion you know is something--
>> GN: That's true.
>> RM: Where you have to believe
in something that exists--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Beyond yourself.
Buddhism is really about--
>> GN: Yourself.
>> RM: Yourself.
So, but they classify
themselves as a religion just
because it makes it
easier for people
to understand you know
what they're talking about
and you know why they're all
dressed in a certain way.
But, that being said I
think this research ennobles
underlines, enhances religions.
You know at first when I came
across it, it was like wow.
This is contrary to my
upbringing as a Catholic.
It was contrary to
every religious thought
that I could see.
>> GN: Oh, it went against
the grain didn't it?
>> RM: Against the grain
until then you start
to read what these
holy men are saying.
You know let's take
Jesus, for example.
I am the way.
I am the light.
You know the light
between lives.
Now, if you happen
to look at the gospel
of Judas this gospel
was discovered a couple
of years ago--
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: And, "National
Geographic" did a thing
about it.
And I saw this sentence in
there, Judas claims, of course,
you know we don't know.
Can't grill him on
it, but Judas claims
that Jesus came to
him and said--
>> GN: You got to do
this for me, right.
>> RM: And he said
to Jesus, "I can't"--
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Because I love you.
>> RM: And Jesus said, "If you
truly love me then you will help
me fulfill my destiny."
>> GN: Yea.
>> RM: Okay, so let's
pretend for a moment
that Jesus knew what
he was here to do.
He needed someone to a fill
that destiny for him, you see.
The stones that are
in your path,
he knew what the stones
had to be in order for him
to accomplish his mission here.
What's his big message?
Love your neighbor as yourself,
because your neighbor
is of yourself.
>> GN: Uh huh.
>> RM: Once you embrace that
and that's really
throughout all religions.
You know as the Dali Lama says,
"My religion is kindness,
a warm heart."
When you talk about what
that idea, what is God,
open your heart to everyone.
There's no more better
way to open your heart
to everyone then to
have a warm heart.
>> GN: Not at all.
Give us some ideas of where
people can track your work.
>> RM: Let's see now,
flipsidethebook.com
you can find my--
I'm going to probably
have a new version of it.
I think I'm going to call
it "Thinning the Veil"
because it seems to work.
>> GN: Why not?
>> RM: And flipsidethefilm.com
is a way to find it.
I'm also involved with the
afterlifeconvention.com.
We're going to have a
convention in Santa Monica.
I brought together--
>> GN: Okay.
>> RM: Gary Swartz--
>> GN: Good.
>> RM: He's been on the show.
>> GN: Good man.
>> RM: Said to say hello.
>> GN: Okay.
>> RM: I saw him
the other night.
Other scientists to talk about
the research in this field,
I'm bringing together people
that I think are trying
to move the paradigm forward--
>> GN: Good for you.
>> RM: To make the veil thinner,
to examine it so
we can understand.
And my motivation really is
the simplest of all things:
If reincarnation exists
then it behooves us all
to examine what we're doing
to the water and to the air
if only for selfish reasons--
>> GN: That's right.
>> RM: Because if we come back
here wouldn't it make sense
to have some fresh water.
>> GN: Rich Martini,
thank you so much.
Let's hear it for Rich.
[applause] You know it's
great to have filmmakers
like Rich Martini who are
probing the unexplained.
And you know the more I talk
to Rich the more I'm convinced
that the other side does exist.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief everyone.
[ Applause ]
[ Music ]